This issue is known as data skew and it's a major headache in big data.
The problem is not the overall size of the data,
but the skewed distribution of data that can bring down your Spark cluster.
A big chunk of the data comes from a small number of songs
and because we're dividing the workload for each worker by the song,
those workers are slowing down the whole group.
Data skew comes up in many domains.
Sometimes 80 percent of your data comes from 20 percent of your users
and this effect happens so often that it's called the Pareto principle.
How do you know if you will encounter Pareto's 80-20 rule?
Occasionally, you know this ahead of time because you're familiar with
your users or you have an intuition about the distribution of your data.
But the best way to catch this,
is to run a quick Spark job to get a summary of your data.
Even if you just sample 5 percent of your data,
you can usually avoid a long Spark job that would have crashed your program.
Once you've identified data skew in your data,
there are two main ways to solve it;
the first is to change the way you divide up
the workload for the computers in your cluster.
Instead of splitting the data by the song title,
divvy up the data by another field like user, or timestamp.
The other approach is to simply break the data into smaller parts,
which Spark calls partitions.
By splitting the data into smaller pieces and spreading those pieces around,
you reduce the chance that a single machine gets stuck with the bulk of the work.
Let's try both of these approaches to fix our Spark job.